HW 2 - Introduction to GitHub

ULAB - Physics and Astronomy Division

Due Sunday, September 29th, 2024 at 11:59pm
  
1 GitHub Repositories
During the lecture on Monday, September 29th, we covered how to clone the
ULAB remote GitHub repository. Cloning a repository means creating a local
copy of the public code on your personal laptop. Going forward, all ULAB home-
work assignments (including this one) will be accessed through the ulab 2024
GitHub repository!

Important Reminder: You only need to clone the ulab 2024 repository on
your command line ONCE! Next lecture we will cover how to update the remote
repository.

GitHub is a platform where programmers (like you!) can store, manage and
share code. It uses Git, a version control system that tracks changes in the
code. You can think of GitHub as a cloud-based storage system (or cloud-based
filing cabinet) that not only holds code but also keeps track of every version and
change made.
  
A directory (or folder) is simply a place on your computer where files and data
are stored. A repository (often called a repo) is an advanced directory that
can store files/data but also manage history, versions and collaborations.

1.1 Cloning a GitHub Repository
After cloning the ulab 2024 repository (which is how you found this home-
work assignment), navigate to the repo by calling cd ulab 2024. Then, run
git status. Take a screenshot of your terminal showing the output from git
status inside of the ulab 2024 repository.

Do some research (on the internet) on what running git status on the com-
mand line inside a repository does. Write a few sentences explaining its pur-
pose. You might encounter the concept of staging—don’t worry if it seems
confusing; we’ll cover topics like pull/push/branch/stage/commit/add in
the next lecture!


1.2 Viewing Code History
A commit is like a snapshot of your project at a specific point in time. It
records the changes you (or others) made to the files, allowing you to revert to
that version if needed. Each commit includes:
• A unique ID
• A message (describing what change has been made)
• A record of what changed in the files

Inside the ulab 2024 repository, run git log --oneline. What is the unique
ID associated with the message ‘Initial commit’ ?
Research three other flags/arguments that can be attached to git log. Run
them on your command line inside of the ulab 2024 repository. Describe what
the new command is doing, what you learned about ulab 2024 when you ran
it, and what happened in your Terminal. Take a screenshot of one of them.

1.3 Making a GitHub account
Follow the instructions given during lecture (or look at the slides) and make a
GitHub account with your @berkeley.edu email address. Take a screenshot of
your profile.

2 Anaconda
On bCourses, under the python folder, there is a file called Installation
Guide. Go to that document and scroll down to the section called Anaconda
(Jupyter Notebooks). Follow the directions and install Anaconda on your
computer. Once you are done installing run jupyter notebook on your com-
mand line and take a screenshot of the output.

